Less sexually put together some rudimentary authentication you know there's sign in with email and password.
But we still don't really know what it means to be signed in.
Right.
We are also not handling the case in which a user enters an incorrect e-mail or password.
So we still have a little bit to go with this whole sign in with e-mail and password business right
here when we have a call to sign with the e-mail and password and then actually execute it this statement
right here returns a promise.
Remember that a promise in Javascript is a construct for handling some amount of asynchronous code when
we authenticate our user.
It makes an actual request to the firebase server and that takes some amount of amount of time to actually
make that request to get notified of when that request is complete.
We can make use of that promise case we can make use of the promises returned by the state and right
here.
So remember the methodology or the flow that we're going to use We're going to say if a users sign a
test fails then we want to try to create an account instead.
So to handle that with a promise we can remove the semi colon on the end of this line which I just did
and I'll add on a dot catch case this dot catch statement right here says if this request fails.
So if we get an error when we try to sign our username then we should enter this function as fadder
function that I just passed to the catch statement.
Then inside the statement right here inside this catch case we will start going down the air change.
So will say OK they must.
If we're in this federal function they must have failed to sign in.
That means we need to then attempt to create that user an account.
So inside of this catch case right here we will attempt to make the user an account with the same e-mail
and password that they just entered.
So to do so we'll use another method on this firebase auth object to say firebase Auth. auth and then
this time round it will be create user with email and password and it will pass in both the e-mail and
the password.
So now we're implementing the right hand side of this chain up to this step right here.
We attempted to sign the user in it if the request fails.
We then attempt to create an account for them.
Now we're going to go further down the right hand side and say OK we just attempted to create an account.
And if that fails then we want to enter the final failed case we want to say finally OK you know what
this really went downhill.
We need to show an error on the screen.
So this statement right here our create user with email and password also returns a promise because
it is also an asynchronous method.
So get a chain on a another dot catch and pass in a federal function.
And inside if here inside of this nested don't catch is where we will finally show an error to the user.
So we need to somehow get an error message on the screen.
So how might we do that.
How would we get our component to re render and show an error message on the screen.
Once we're inside this catch case right here remember how we always re render our components we always
re render components by using component levels state.
So we will introduce a new property on our state objects called something like I don't know.
Error.
And if the user both fails to sign in and create a new user with email and password then we'll show
an error message basically saying hey everything went wrong here like you did something really wrong.
So let's give it a shot.
Whenever we use state we have to default our new property.
So I will default error to be a new string.
And then if a user finally gets into this catch case down here where they both failed to sign in and
sign up then we will update our state and update the error message.
So we'll say this Dot said state ere is authentication failed.
Just a very generic Hey something really went wrong here.
You entered some bad information so now whenever the user really screws up or really fails their authentication
we will have a piece of state called this dot state DOT air.
So the last thing that we need to do is make sure that we show that error message inside of our render
method somewhere.
I'm going to find my last card section.
So here's the button component right here.
And the card section with it.
And outside of that card section.
So I'm outside of it.
I'm going to add in a new text tag to show the user that error message.
So inside the text tag I'll say this dot state DOT air.
Now the key here is that when the component first boots up this Staat state DOT air is going to be an
empty string.
So by default the user does not see an error message.
But then when the user successfully logs in you know everything is happy and fine everything is going
just A-OK.
Er wait wait.
No reverse that news or attempts to log in and something goes wrong.
This outstate air will be populated.
There will be an error message in here and the text tag will actually show up to the user.
Note that we are not importing the text tags right now so I'm going to scroll back up to the top two
are re-act native import and I'm also going to import the text tag and it looks like we removed that
Riak needed import altogether.
So import it back in and I'll pull out the text tag from re-activated like so and then the last thing
I want to do is I want to add a little bit of styling to a text tag right here just to make it nice
and big and red and really just shove it right in our user's face to let them know hey something went
really went wrong with authentication.
So to add in a style we'll do and we're going to do the same thing we always do.
We will add in a new styles object.
The bottom and I will give this a property of error text style and it will tell it hey you need to be
really big so we'll a font size of 20.
We will use the Aline's self property to center the text on the screen and it will set the color to
red.
So it's nice big and bright red.
Then finally we will apply this textile to the textile that we just added.
So here is the text tag.
I'm going to apply a style of styles dot air text style.
All right so again because we're only using one property of the styles object right now I'm not going
to use destructuring if it ends up that we need more properties off the styles object that may well
do some destructuring just to clean up our code.
So in this section we have implemented the first portion of our flow like this entire right hand side
failed case.
So if the user attempts to sign in with an email and password that does not exist or if they attempt
to sign in with it e-mail and password that e-mail that does exist but the incorrect password they will
go down the full right hand side and we will eventually show them an error message down here.
So let's get to the next section and test out this flow.